---
layout: post
title: Week 三
---

# Past Week
I completed the Collatz assignment. This proeeded, for the most part, as planned.
I ran into the occasional issue, but thankfully my diligence in setting up the
infrastructure for the project paid off in time-not-stressing. Perhaps DevOps is
more interesting than I give it credit.
  The morning of the assignment due-date, the Travis-CI team
[pushed a change](https://github.com/travis-ci/travis-ci/issues/6578) that broke my travis config.
Because the CI script used `sudo` to install gtest and boost, the builds failed when
Travis-CI changed which builds were routed to their container-based, `sudo`-unsupported
infrastructure. This was unfortunate but showed that planning for unexpected
disruptions is a necessity.

# Current Hurdles
I'm working on a writing a lexical analyzer in C for Compilers. It's fun work,
interpreting and manipulating bytes of data at a time. The limitations we were given,
mainly to not use any C library functions that do the work of the lexical analyzer,
remind me of the power of reusing code and the struggle against reimplementing the
wheel, which we sometimes still have to do to learn.

# Next Week
We start on the next OOP project, which I hope to get up and running as soon as possible.
I don't expect to finish coding the solution right away, but as I've learned, getting
the extra-programming infrastructure things set up first will save my periods of coding
from time-consuming disruptions.

# Class
Don't get caught with your pants down. Stay engaged, with the lectures and the course
in general. This is enforced verbally in Downing's class, but is a good tip for
any course you take. It might be obvious, but this is easy to neglect when there is
no one to keep you honest. To be fair, I still sometimes have problems with this even
now, in my last year in the program.

# Read-of-the-week
*The Girl with all the Gifts* by M. R. Carey, a surprisingly fresh take on a genre of
fiction that seems, at this point, well played-out. An easy recommendation to anyone
looking for a fun read.

# Tip-of-the-week
Use tmux! Primarily a terminal multiplexer, it lets you to use multiple terminal
sessions in a single terminal window. It also lets you attach and reattach to tmux
sessions. These features make it an invaluable tool when using ssh. With tmux you
can be as productive over an ssh connection as you are sitting at the machine itself.
