---
layout: post
title: Week Numero Uno
---

Maintaining a blog seems like a good way to start the semester. A little reflection does a lot of good. So, off we go!

**What did you do this past week?**  
I stumbled my way into the new semester with an awkward move-in, but the novelty of a new schedule and set of courses is always exciting.
The initial round of lectures is, as usual, a rush. I'm anxious to get going in Compilers, Networks, and of course Object Oriented Programming.

**What's in your way?**  
The hustle and bustle of a new school year always trips me up as I get into the groove of my schedule.
Getting into the rhythm of the assignments, projects, and para-curricular activities seems to always take me a bit longer then everyone else.
Hopefully I'll soon be kicking it on beat. 

**What will you do next week?**  
Hopefully, I'll be:  
* Finished up setting the tables of my programming environment (Docker, Vim, Zsh, Tmux, Git all configured to my liking)  
* Get running on the first project (Collatz?)  
* Finally get Bash on Windows running properly (GNU/NT? It sounds right but feels oh so wrong)  

**OOP (AKA method-is-to-me-just-a-call)**  
This isn't the first course I'm taking with prof. Downing.
Generic Programming and the STL was a very informative course where we were given a lot of hands on experience working with C++'s templating system and standard library.
The experience I gained with C++'s powerful features was invaluable.
OOP feels like more of the same, which is a glowing review as any other.
I'm excited to continue to learn how to take advantage of the power of C++ and Object-Oriented programming in general.

**Tip-of-the-week**  
Professor Novak made a point about `C`'s assignment operator that I never considered.
As he noted, many people maintain that the `=` operator should represent equality, as it is in *Math*, and not assignment, as it is in many mainstream languages.
As a math nerd I'm inclined to agree. But Dr. Novak points out that Pascal's assignment operator `:=` could be considered a violation of Zipf's Law, which determines that in human languages the shortest words correspond with the most common.
I'm not sure that I'm completely convinced on the logic, because using `=` for assignment and `==` for equality always seemed a little ugly, but I can't argue against the convenience of not having to type `:=` for every assignment.

Perhaps programming isn't the path to purity and enlightment I thought it was.
