---
layout: post
title: Week the Second
---

# Past Week
I got the project mostly done. I'm finishing up my initial (unoptimized solution).
On top of running Docker, I've also got the Linux Subsystem for Windows(tm) running.
Microsoft's implemented the Linux syscalls on top of NT, and imported the Ubuntu
userspace into Windows. I'm running Bash, Neovim, clang/gcc, and almost everything else
in the programming environment running natively in Windows.

It's quite an impressive piece of software. Not everything works (not all syscalls are
implemented, and some programs depend on running on a true GNU/Linux system).

# Current Hurdles
Setting up the programming environment took longer than I expected.
Docker works a bit differently than virtualization software I've used.
I mounted a shared directory (between my host and client OS) as the working directory. This
caused issues when using some programs; Windows and Linux don't correspond with file permissions.

# Next Week
I finish the assignment (optimized cached 3n+1 solution and all).
I plan to start the optimizaiton process by making two feature branches.
I'll add lazy-caching and meta-caching. Hopefully, if they both work as planned, I'll
be able to merge both into the main program.

# Class
I enjoy the Downing-Socratic method of teaching. It demands a level of attention and focus
that is out of the norm. I usually find coding a subject that requires more hands-on
methodology, but prof Downing's lectures are a substantive alternative.

# Tip-of-the-week
Neovim is my preferred editor. It's Vim refactored and rejuvenated. They've done some
good work, and made a suprising amount of progress removing the cruft that's accumulated in Vim.

Come for the asynchronous plugins, stay for the sweet logo.

